# Machine-Learning-QB
## Introduction
The NFL draft is an annual event that gives professional football teams the opportunity to improve their roster by recruiting the college football players whom they consider the most talented. The NFL draft is a large event with great media attention, including people whose fame arose from being able to project the draft. Being able to know whether you will be drafted or not allows a player to make an educated decision on potentially declaring for the draft. Additionally, agents want to target players that are likely to be drafted, as they will receive a percentage of their NFL salary. Whereas, undrafted players may not produce any value for the agent. If an NFL team knows which players are going to be drafted, they have more information to develop a strategy to maximize their value from the draft. Being able to know if an athlete will be drafted is vital information for players, agents, teams, and the media. 
 
In this project, we apply supervised machine learning techniques to predict the probability collegiate quarterbacks are drafted into the NFL. These techniques are based on classification methods such as decision trees, random forest, bootstrap aggregating, K-Nearest Neighbors, and logistic regression models. Although our focus is on the quarterback position, our methods can ultimately be applied to any other positions as well. The goal of our project is to simply develop a model that can determine the attributes that largely define a player's draft status Overall, the importance behind our project lies in the decision-making since it would help narrow down the players that will have the biggest impact in the NFL upon leaving college.
 
## Data
The data was sourced from sports-reference.com, using a quarterback's passing statistics in their final year of Division 1 college football and cross referencing with their draft status. This data is available to use as per the website's sharing policy. The accumulated data consists of 1036 observations with no missing values. In the data, there are a total of 12 predictors variables: 1 categorical and 11 numerical. Not all quarterbacks play the same level of competition and each conference has a varying degree of difficulty. As a proxy for level of difficulty we created an additional predictor: power5. This is a binary variable stating whether a quarterback played in an esteemed conference which typically face more difficult opponents. Over the timespan of our data conferences have realigned so we have assigned the quarterbacks power5 for playing in these conferences: "Big 12","Pac-10","Pac-12" "Big Ten", "ACC", "SEC", and  "Big East". Additionally, Notre Dame quarterbacks are determined power5 for playing in particularly esteemed and difficult matches regardless of the school's conference status. Finally, we converted interception and touchdown statistics to a percentage by dividing by the number of passing attempts. This better demonstrates a quarterback's talent than the raw statistic. The data also includes the players' names and schools which serve as identifiers rather than predictors. Our targeted response variable is a binary value of draft status.
